long-message-attack/README.md, before:

# Long message attack
- Phase I  : Construct a long message
- Phase II : Find sufficient number of potentiall collisions. 
- Phase III: Filter all false positives, record messages the produces collisions.

# Known Bugs:
- Phase II: 
  - stops when finding only one potential collision. It should stops after a sufficient number of collisions
  - Store potential collisions in a file 

- Phase III: 

## todo (Techincally not bugs):
- Rewrite the format of the files
- restructure files in the folder
- add time stamp for the files
- compute how many potentiall collisions should be computed in phase ii
- write phase iii
- edit benchmark
- edit verifyo
- when writing the long message, we might record several internal states of it wiht index in a file. This allows parallel execution in phase iii
- `log/` folder is for statistics and testing output
- `messages/` there should be a distinction between potential messages and messages the leads to collisions

# Performance Evolution
In these measurements, we used a predictable prng in order to test the same numbers on all variants. Also, all parameters below have no cycle in Phase I. We believe this is realistic model. These tests have been conducted on the same machine with the same OS.



## n=52, l=25
- 03 nov 2022: 3,9475 +- 0,0131 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple search, stop if 3/4 found empty slot), openmp, 64bit key store) 
- 02 nov 2022:  5,1244 +- 0,0461 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple elements search), openmp, 64bit key store)
- 13 oct 2022(updated):  6,2746 +- 0,0566 sec (ɑ=0.90, sha256-x86, simd(single element search), openmp, 64bit key store)
- (not-accurate) 27 sep 2022: 976.07 sec (ɑ=0.50, sha256, openmp)

## n=51, l=25
- 03 nov 2022: 3,9668 +- 0,0143 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple search, stop if 3/4 found empty slot), openmp, 64bit key store) 
- 02 nov 2022:  5,0265 +- 0,0145 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple elements search), openmp, 64bit key store)
- 13 oct 2022(updated):  5,611 +- 0,0292 sec  (ɑ=0.90, sha256-x86, simd, openmp, 64bit key store max)
- 27 sep 2022(not-accurate): 322.98 sec (ɑ=0.50, sha256, openmp)

## n=50, l=25
(c rand_r, seed is the thread number)
- 03 nov 2022: 3,95056 +- 0,00790 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple search, stop if 3/4 found empty slot), openmp, 64bit key store) 
- 02 nov 2022: 4,0711 +- 0,0105 secc (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple elements search), openmp, 64bit key store)
- 13 oct 2022:   5,6730 +- 0,0871 sec (ɑ=0.90, sha256-x86, simd, openmp, 64bit key store max)
(random numbers)
- 27 sep 2022(not-accurate): 51.15 sec (ɑ=0.50, sha256, openmp)


## n=44, l=18
(todo restore old data)
- 03 nov 2022: 0,01836 +- 0,00231 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple search, stop if 3/4 found empty slot), openmp, 64bit key store) 

# Summary:
This folder has three main executables `long_message_attack`, `verify_hash', `bench_mark` which generate two colliding messages, verifies the results, and benchmark the dictionary and sha256 respectively. 

# definitions
long message: a large message of zeros.

## Usage:
Basic usage:
make clean && make

./long_message_attack n l

This will mount an attack of truncated sha256 to n-bits using a long message of length 2^l. The random message that collides with the long message can be found in `messages/n_l` in binary format (read it as unsigned char[64]). Also, you can find benchmark and the index where the collision occurs at `statistics_parallel/n_l.txt`.  Substitute n and l, if l>= n/2 then there is a high chance of having a cycle. In this case, you can only find a file in `statistics_parallel/n_l.txt`


### Verifies the results
./verify_hash "messages/n_l" n
This will read the file n_l, truncate the output to n bits, and search for an index where the message found in `messages/n_l` collides with the long message. If the index mentioned in "messages/n_l" doesn't produce a collision it will indicate that they are not colliding.




# compile:
run `make` and the executable `long_message_attack` is the a parallel version of the attack, apologies for the confusion with what written below.

## Flags
`-fopenmp` for parallel executable (only Phase II can be parallel)
`-DVERBOSE_LEVEL` print intermediate information (it will flood the program use with care)


- parallel
gcc -fopenmp -O3 long_message_attack.c sha256.c dict.c util/util_char_arrays.c util/memory.c -lm -o long_message_attack_parallel

// DEBUG
gcc -DVERBOSE_LEVEL -fopenmp -O3  -g long_message_attack.c sha256.c dict.c util/util_char_arrays.c util/memory.c -lm -o long_message_attack_parallel




- serial
gcc -O3  -g long_message_attack.c sha256.c dict.c util/util_char_arrays.c util/memory.c -lm -o long_message_attack

// with debug using
gcc -DVERBOSE_LEVEL -O3  -g long_message_attack.c sha256.c dict.c util/util_char_arrays.c util/memory.c -lm -o long_message_attack



- verify hash
gcc -g verify_hash.c sha256.c -lm -o verify_hash

cost statistics:
sudo perf stat -a  -e power/energy-pkg/ ./long_message_attack_parallel 63 29

sudo perf stat -o stats.txt -a -r 2 -e power/energy-pkg/ ./long_message_attack 30 15


sudo perf stat -a -r 2 -e power/energy-pkg/ ./long_message_attack 30 15

usage:
./longa_message_attack n l
n: 0<n<257 which is the number of bits in the output of the compression function
l:float 2^l is the number of blocks

- the two messages, that collide, will be saved in the files `message1` `message2`


files:
- 
- statistics*/n_l_bits.txt files contain the system power usage while the program was running.
- long_message_attack.c: main file that implements the attack
- verify_hash.c: reads 64 bytes from a binary file then it hashes a long message till a collision is found.
                 returns the index idx where the collision occurs.
- dict.*: chained dictionary implementation using linked list
- util_char_arrays.* : some useful functionalities
- ignore the tmp file



taken from the internet: 
- sha256.* (modified)
- crypto-algorithms-master.zip
- memory.c

questions:


issues:


future improvements:


possible optimizations:
- profile the code


Benchmarks:
- Number of sha256 transforms ~2^21 calls / sec
- Memory writes ~100MB/sec

Commit message:

Added explanation why gather seems to be faster, although in close inspection it's slower. Fixed a bug where is falsely claim that we can attack n=128 in few seconds!

long-message-attack/README.md, after:

# Long message attack
- Phase I  : Construct a long message
- Phase II : Find sufficient number of potentiall collisions. 
- Phase III: Filter all false positives, record messages the produces collisions.

# Known Bugs:
- Phase II: 
  - stops when finding only one potential collision. It should stops after a sufficient number of collisions
  - Store potential collisions in a file 

- Phase III: 

## todo (Techincally not bugs):
- Rewrite the format of the files
- restructure files in the folder
- add time stamp for the files
- compute how many potentiall collisions should be computed in phase ii
- write phase iii
- edit benchmark
- edit verifyo
- when writing the long message, we might record several internal states of it wiht index in a file. This allows parallel execution in phase iii
- `log/` folder is for statistics and testing output
- `messages/` there should be a distinction between potential messages and messages the leads to collisions

# Performance Evolution
In these measurements, we used a predictable prng in order to test the same numbers on all variants. Also, all parameters below have no cycle in Phase I. We believe this is realistic model. These tests have been conducted on the same machine with the same OS.

## to gather or not to gather:
Benchmarking dictionary lookup where 4-elements simultaneously using gather instruction, the look up are slower than linear lookup of a single element. On the other hand, when benchmarking `long\_message\_attack 52 25` the gather version seems to be 20% faster. 

These conflicting measures can be resolved by observing the two facts:
1. The old code has a dictionary size almost 2x larger than dictionary used in gather version. This is because, we decided to remove values array. 
2. Counting the number of trials, due to to the prng, gather version was lucky when it found the collision after ~30M trials. The linear version had to go through ~70M trials and was around ~20% slower!

## Verdict:
Gather instruction is not worth using in our case. 

### Addendum:

I found claims that:
	- Gather is 8x faster on new amd threadripper (see https://twitter.com/ChrisGr93091552/status/1562583460992397317 )
	- Gather can be as fast as linear scan (see to use or not to use the simd gather https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3533737.3535089 )



## n=52, l=25
- 13 oct 2022(updated):  5,9917 +- 0,0192 seconds time elapsed  ( +-  0,32%) (ɑ=0.90, sha256-x86, simd(single element search), openmp, 64bit key store)
- (not-accurate) 27 sep 2022: 976.07 sec (ɑ=0.50, sha256, openmp)
- (Warning: This result is faster due to incorrect behavior! when 3/4 decides to end the probe, ) 03 nov 2022: 3,9475 +- 0,0131 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple search, stop if 3/4 found empty slot), openmp, 64bit key store) 




## n=51, l=25

- 02 nov 2022:  5,0265 +- 0,0145 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple elements search), openmp, 64bit key store)
- 13 oct 2022(updated):  5,611 +- 0,0292 sec  (ɑ=0.90, sha256-x86, simd, openmp, 64bit key store max)
- 27 sep 2022(not-accurate): 322.98 sec (ɑ=0.50, sha256, openmp)
- (Warning: This result is faster due to incorrect behavior!) 03 nov 2022: 3,9668 +- 0,0143 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple search, stop if 3/4 found empty slot), openmp, 64bit key store) 
## n=50, l=25
(c rand_r, seed is the thread number)
- 02 nov 2022: 4,0711 +- 0,0105 secc (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple elements search), openmp, 64bit key store)
- 13 oct 2022:   5,6730 +- 0,0871 sec (ɑ=0.90, sha256-x86, simd, openmp, 64bit key store max)
(random numbers)
- (Warning: This result is faster due to incorrect behavior!) 03 nov 2022: 3,95056 +- 0,00790 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple search, stop if 3/4 found empty slot), openmp, 64bit key store) 
- 27 sep 2022(not-accurate): 51.15 sec (ɑ=0.50, sha256, openmp)


## n=44, l=18
(todo restore old data)
- 03 nov 2022: 0,01836 +- 0,00231 sec (ɑ=0.9, sha256-x86, simd(multiple search, stop if 3/4 found empty slot), openmp, 64bit key store) 

# Summary:
This folder has three main executables `long_message_attack`, `verify_hash', `bench_mark` which generate two colliding messages, verifies the results, and benchmark the dictionary and sha256 respectively. 

# definitions
long message: a large message of zeros.

## Usage:
Basic usage:
make clean && make

./long_message_attack n l

This will mount an attack of truncated sha256 to n-bits using a long message of length 2^l. The random message that collides with the long message can be found in `messages/n_l` in binary format (read it as unsigned char[64]). Also, you can find benchmark and the index where the collision occurs at `statistics_parallel/n_l.txt`.  Substitute n and l, if l>= n/2 then there is a high chance of having a cycle. In this case, you can only find a file in `statistics_parallel/n_l.txt`


### Verifies the results
./verify_hash "messages/n_l" n
This will read the file n_l, truncate the output to n bits, and search for an index where the message found in `messages/n_l` collides with the long message. If the index mentioned in "messages/n_l" doesn't produce a collision it will indicate that they are not colliding.




# compile:
run `make` and the executable `long_message_attack` is the a parallel version of the attack, apologies for the confusion with what written below.

## Flags
`-fopenmp` for parallel executable (only Phase II can be parallel)
`-DVERBOSE_LEVEL` print intermediate information (it will flood the program use with care)


- parallel
gcc -fopenmp -O3 long_message_attack.c sha256.c dict.c util/util_char_arrays.c util/memory.c -lm -o long_message_attack_parallel

// DEBUG
gcc -DVERBOSE_LEVEL -fopenmp -O3  -g long_message_attack.c sha256.c dict.c util/util_char_arrays.c util/memory.c -lm -o long_message_attack_parallel




- serial
gcc -O3  -g long_message_attack.c sha256.c dict.c util/util_char_arrays.c util/memory.c -lm -o long_message_attack

// with debug using
gcc -DVERBOSE_LEVEL -O3  -g long_message_attack.c sha256.c dict.c util/util_char_arrays.c util/memory.c -lm -o long_message_attack



- verify hash
gcc -g verify_hash.c sha256.c -lm -o verify_hash

cost statistics:
sudo perf stat -a  -e power/energy-pkg/ ./long_message_attack_parallel 63 29

sudo perf stat -o stats.txt -a -r 2 -e power/energy-pkg/ ./long_message_attack 30 15


sudo perf stat -a -r 2 -e power/energy-pkg/ ./long_message_attack 30 15

usage:
./longa_message_attack n l
n: 0<n<257 which is the number of bits in the output of the compression function
l:float 2^l is the number of blocks

- the two messages, that collide, will be saved in the files `message1` `message2`


files:
- 
- statistics*/n_l_bits.txt files contain the system power usage while the program was running.
- long_message_attack.c: main file that implements the attack
- verify_hash.c: reads 64 bytes from a binary file then it hashes a long message till a collision is found.
                 returns the index idx where the collision occurs.
- dict.*: chained dictionary implementation using linked list
- util_char_arrays.* : some useful functionalities
- ignore the tmp file



taken from the internet: 
- sha256.* (modified)
- crypto-algorithms-master.zip
- memory.c

questions:


issues:


future improvements:


possible optimizations:
- profile the code


Benchmarks:
- Number of sha256 transforms ~2^21 calls / sec
- Memory writes ~100MB/sec
